# runsolver

Check branch history to view changes over original source code v3.4.1 http://www.cril.univ-artois.fr/~roussel/runsolver/.

## Build

> [!Note]
>  Build instructions tested on `make 4.3`, `g++ 13.3.0`, and `Ubuntu 24.04.2 LTS`. The code is Linux specific.


```build
make
```

## Install

Copy the binary into a local applications directory which is on PATH (run `echo $PATH` to check):

```install-local
make install INSTROOT=<installation-dir>
```

For system-wide installation (requires sudoers priviledge):
```install
sudo make install
```

## Cleanup Build files

```
make clean
```

## Usage

```
runsolver --timestamp -C <cpu-limit-seconds> -W <wall-clock-limit-seconds>\
--rss-swap-limit <RSS+SWAP-limit> --vsize-limit <VM-limit> -w watch.log -v values.log -o tool_output.log\
 ./<path-to-solver-runnable> <tool-args>
```

> [!Important]
> The type of memory limit is important as some programs may request a lot of virtual memory (VM) but only use a fraction of it. So, <VM-limit> should be much greater than <RSS+SWAP-limit>. If in doubt, omit `--vsize-limit <VM-limit>` altogether.

- `--rss-swap-limit` <RSS+SWAP-limit> Limits RSS (Resident Set Size, or in other words, amount of RAM used) and swap
- `--vsize-limit` <VM-limit> limits virtual memory (VM) usage

### Example

```
runsolver -C 1800 --rss-swap-limit 8192 -w watch.log -v values.log -o tool_output.log ./<path-to-solver-runnable> <args>
```
limits the cpu time consumed to $1800$ seconds and RSS to $8192$ mega bytes.

---

runsolver Copyright (C) 2010 Olivier ROUSSEL (roussel@cril.univ-artois.fr)

runsolver is a program meant to control the ressources used by a
solver. Basically, it can be seen as the integration of the time and
ulimit commands, but it has several other features. It is able to
timestamp each line output by a program, is able to handle correctly
multithreads or multiprocesses programs (don't loose the time of the
child even when the parent doesn't call wait()), is able to enforce
strict limits on the memory usage, logs information on each process
generated by the solver and is able to limit the size of the solver
output.

This program is especially useful when you want to run a program and
strictly control the ressources it uses.

This program was first used in the competitions of Pseudo-Boolean
solvers (2005) and was later used in the SAT and CSP competitions.

For now, the code is Linux specific.


runsolver is free software, distributed under the terms of the [GNU] General
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation,
version 3 of the License (or any later version).  For more information,
see the file LICENSE-GPL-3.0.txt. 
